 Most apps fail before they launch because the idea is not useful. So today I'm showing my five-step app store packaging workflow. We're going to pick an app idea. We're going to do deep research, keyword research, competitive research, and then write the final app store listing. Use these steps to position your app before you even write a line of code using Codex or Claude code. Let's dive in. Why do most apps fail before they launch? If you've ever launched an app and it got crickets on the app store, you're doing something wrong. And that's what we're going to talk about in this video. I'm going to give you five different things that we can leverage to make a better app. The reason your app is not getting downloads is the app packaging. And this is something that you have to actively work at to find a problem and solve it for a customer and then articulate your solution to the customer. If you don't use the right words, it just goes right over their head. And so that's what we're going to get into this video. So I've got five different sections that we're going to talk about. We're going to first start with how to pick an app idea. And for me, this is this is really easy for other people. I know this is hard. So. I think if you want to get into app development. Your best bet is to have a notebook and to take notes in that notebook, draw things out, write ideas down. That loop is going to get your head spinning in terms of products and ideas. And I just draw boxes for things like I'm thinking about a new feature in my teleprompter and if I put this here, you might be able to read some of it. And so that is so incredibly helpful to just draw a simple sketch. You don't have to be an animator or a designer to draw boxes and write text in them. It's very simple and you draw a stick figure that doesn't look like a real person. And it's good enough because it captures the idea. So I think a lot on paper. And sometimes it's over multiple days. Sometimes it's over multiple weeks. With my latest app, this has been something that I've been dogfooding myself, which means I have been using it. I've been using it to make videos like this one. And it's really helpful because it gives me clarity. It allows me to go from notes to slideshow without any transformation of the text that I want to work with in Markdown. And so. I solve problems that I have. My problem is presentation. My problem is brewing coffee. My problem is keeping track of time. My problem is creating artwork. And so I've built these different apps because I had a problem or an idea. And I run with them. And then I put them out there and you get feedback from people. And that's how you can go about picking an app idea. Now, I'm going to give you some tools in here that you can use to sort of jumpstart that process. And if you have a problem, what I want you to do is I want you to pause. Stop. Let's get out a pad of paper. And I want you to write down five five recent frustrations you've had with technology. Or five frustrations you've had with something. Maybe you're into writing and you want to write a book and you're thinking, okay, what is a tool that could help me write a book? Or prompt me. Maybe you're interested in getting fit and losing weight. I lost 50 pounds by changing what I ate and my exercise habits. You can't out-exercise what you eat, but those two work together to make it a lot easier. Can you do something in that space? Do you have a special skill from your work experience, from jobs that you've worked on? Or have you seen a problem at work that you could automate so quickly that it would be useful for your previous boss or your current boss to leverage in your app? I recently built a mapping tool that allowed me to sort of see how big a region is. Like you can just spin up things so quickly with different tools. I had an idea. We just redid our shower up in the attic. And I had an idea that would have helped me think about the layout of the tile. It's not perfect. It looks good. There's a couple things that I just didn't like. And if I had visualized what the layout was going to be before we actually put it on the wall, knowing the exact dimensions, that would have helped me lay out something. So maybe you can do some kind of tile layout thing. Now, tile layouts, tricky. You've got imperfect tiles, which my wife chose. So they're organic in nature and they're not perfectly uniform. And then you've got walls that might not be plumb or square. You might be in an old house. This house is almost 100 years old. It's 97 years old. And so that adds challenges. We had floors that went like this. And we had to put hardwoods down, which meant we had to somehow make it a little bit less wavy. One of the guys, I don't know if this is possible, but the drywaller wanted an app that would tell him how warm it was in the room without carrying an extra sensor. I don't know if you can do that from an iPhone. That would be a perfect app for a drywaller. If you could position it for them. I met a guy whose gold mining in Alaska. And he's dredging to get gold. Like what app could you build for someone like that? A little mapping tool that allows you to like just draw on the map where you've dredged. Like super niche apps like that are really interesting. And if you have a person in mind, they can be your first customer. They can help steer the direction that you're going to go. So this is all really important. So that's how I would start. I am a big fan of paper and pen. I, I go everywhere with this notebook when I travel, I write things down when I don't get time to do it because of construction or family exercise kids. Like there's a level of frustration that builds up. And so for me, thinking on paper is one of the best ways. The other thing I do is I'll have an iPad and I like iPads because they're single focused. So I can open up my iPad and I can go right into. My notes app, and I can just start writing. So I have a November writing note that I'm still appending to. I probably need a new 2026 writing note. I've got the magic keyboard and this is singular focus, which I like. I actually haven't updated to the latest iOS 26 because I don't want to multitask. I just want a dumb writing tool. And my iPad is that simple computer that has less distractions than my full MacBook. My full MacBook, the moment I open it, it is a distraction magnet. So set a timer for 25 minutes or 15 minutes, whatever time you can. And put on horse blinders and just work on whatever app ideas you want to write down. Another great thing, I don't know if I have any exact mind maps in here. I do have one later on, but it's not necessarily for apps. It's just about future direction. But mind mapping is a really important technique. And let me see if I can find it. For some reason, I opened the page to like the end of the book and just started drawing instead of the next page. So a mind map just allows you to plan out some things that you want to do. And this is a great brainstorming technique. Set a 15 minute timer. Do nothing else. Go and do not disturb mode. Tell your significant other, your kids that you're busy or do it when they're asleep or not home. And you will be super productive. And that will spin up ideas that you want to work on. I'm working on a spider app. I'm working on brew coffee. I'm working on super easy timer. I'm working on YouTube. I'm working on machine learning stuff. Like there's so many different things that I'm working on. And that's all captured in this book. So I highly recommend it. Okay, so number two is deep research. And this is a power skill that if you have not leveraged yet, you are missing out big time. I use deep research all the time. And it is so helpful because you get a PDF artifact. From ChatGPT Pro that you can then feed into other agents or models and you can leverage insights that you've accumulated. And this is a really powerful technique for understanding a domain that you have no idea about, exploring something and getting some starting points, some ideas, some competitors, some features. There's all kinds of things you can do with deep research and ChatGPT Pro is the best value on the market, in my opinion. It is something I've been paying for since January of last year. So that's $200 a month for an entire year. There's nothing that I have found that comes close to the level of thought and intelligence that chat GPT